README.md, before:

# mst_searching
The algorithm searches a minimum spanning tree and a minimum spanning forest (also known as an optimum branching or a minimum-cost arborescence) in directed graphs by means of Chu-Liu/Edmonds algorithm.

By means of this program you can do the following:
1. Searching the minimum spanning tree in the directed graph
2. Searching the minimum forest in the one
3. Separately it handles the case of the potential graph


How to build
============

1. create folder for binary files, e.g., `build`

    `mkdir build`

2. `cd build`

3. `cmake ..`

4. `make`

After this step you are ready to go!


How to use
==========

1. Navigate to you build directory (`build` in out example)

2. Run program by typing in `./run.exe`. After that you should see the following:

```
Output is written to ../output/YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS/
-- Which file from input/ should I take?
```


Program will automatically create output folder in `output/` directory named in the following format `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS` where `YYYYMMDD` is the execution date and `HHMMSS` is the corresponding time.

__Note__: Output pictures are in .eps format

After that program will be waiting for you to provide file containing graph description as adjacency matrix with some additional information:

```
# of nodes
[adjacency matrix]
idx of the root node
```

Note: at the moment this is important that the file provided is in `input` directory of the project root directory

3. After that program will ask for number of connected components for minimum spanning forest
```
 -- k = ?
```

4. Program will automatically determine if the graph provided could be used as potential graph, if it is the case then you will see the following:
```
 -- Built for potential graph!
```

Otherwise, you will be asked whether or not the program to build minimum spanning tree:
```
 -- Built for non-potential graph!
 -- Should I build MST?
```

And if you wish to build minimum spanning forest:
```
 -- Should I build forest?
```


Examples
========

1. Directed graph

Original graph  

![Original graph](pics/directed_graph/G.png)

MST (Blue edges are in tree)

![MST](pics/directed_graph/mst.png)

MSF (Blue edges are in forest)

![MSF](pics/directed_graph/forest.png)

Also in structured view

![MSF](pics/directed_graph/forest_structured.png)

2. Potential graph

Original potential graph  

![Original graph](pics/potential/potential_graph.png)

MST (Blue edges are in tree)

![MST](pics/potential/mst.png)

Also in structured view

![MSF](pics/potential/mst_structured.png)

Commit message:

added prerequisites and some formulas for potential case

README.md, after:

# mst_searching
The algorithm searches a minimum spanning tree (MST) and a minimum spanning forest (MSF) (also known as an optimum branching or a minimum-cost arborescence) in directed graphs by means of Chu-Liu/Edmonds algorithm.

By means of this program you can do the following:
1. Searching the minimum spanning tree in the directed graph
2. Searching the minimum forest in the one
3. Separately it handles the case of the potential graph


Prerequisites 
=============

To generate picture of the minimum spanning tree and forest you should have installed [graphviz](https://graphviz.org/)


How to build
============

1. create folder for binary files, e.g., `build`

    `mkdir build`

2. `cd build`

3. `cmake ..`

4. `make`

After this step you are ready to go!


How to use
==========

1. Navigate to you build directory (`build` in out example)

2. Run program by typing in `./run.exe`. After that you should see the following:

```
Output is written to ../output/YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS/
-- Which file from input/ should I take?
```


Program will automatically create output folder in `output/` directory named in the following format `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS` where `YYYYMMDD` is the execution date and `HHMMSS` is the corresponding time.

__Note__: Output pictures are in .eps format

After that program will be waiting for you to provide file containing graph description as adjacency matrix with some additional information:

```
# of nodes
[adjacency matrix]
idx of the root node
```

Note: at the moment this is important that the file provided is in `input` directory of the project root directory

3. After that program will ask for number of connected components for minimum spanning forest
```
 -- k = ?
```

4. Program will automatically determine if the graph provided could be used as potential graph, if it is the case then you will see the following:
```
 -- Built for potential graph!
```

Otherwise, you will be asked whether or not the program to build minimum spanning tree:
```
 -- Built for non-potential graph!
 -- Should I build MST?
```

And if you wish to build minimum spanning forest:
```
 -- Should I build forest?
```


Examples
========

1. Directed graph

Original graph  

![Original graph](pics/directed_graph/G.png)

MST (Blue edges are in tree)

![MST](pics/directed_graph/mst.png)

MSF for `k = 2` (Blue edges are in forest)

![MSF](pics/directed_graph/forest.png)

Also in structured view

![MSF](pics/directed_graph/forest_structured.png)

2. Potential graph

Original non-oriented potential graph  

![Original graph](pics/potential/potential_graph.png)

MST for the corresponding oriented graph (Blue edges are in tree), i.e., 
<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?v_{ij} = p_{ij} - p_{ii}" /> 
where <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?v_{ij}" /> is the set of weights of the oriented graph and <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?p_{ij}" /> is the set of weights of the original potential non-oriented graph

![MST](pics/potential/mst.png)

Also in structured view

![MSF](pics/potential/mst_structured.png)
